---
layout : post
title : 'man command'
tags : [man]
---
## 2.1 - man Command

**man** followed by _keyword_ yields the manual page of that command.
```bash
$ man ls
```

`man` followed by option `-k` (for keyword) and then followed by a _keyword_ yields a list of all
the commands containing that keywork and a brief descripiton of that command.

```bash
[somu@testBed ~]$ man -k day
daylight (3) - initialize time conversion information
dysize (3) - get number of days for a given year
daylight (3p) - set timezone conversion information
gettimeofday (2) - get / set time
gettimeofday (3p) - get the date and time
motd (5) - message of the day
Net::Time (3pm) - time and daytime network client interface
settimeofday (2) - get / set time
Time::HiRes (3pm) - High resolution alarm, sleep, gettimeofday, interval timers
```
The numbers next to the commands indicate which seciton of the man pages the command
belongs to (based on their functionality). The actual section that the commands belong to
can be determined by the use of:
```bash
$ man man-pages
```
The relevant sections for SysAdmins are Section 1, 5 & 8. The sections are:
1Section
Number
Deals with Description
1 Commands (Programs)
Those commands that can be executed by the user
from within a shell.
2 System calls Those functions which must be performed by the kernel.
3 Library calls Most of the libc functions.
4 Special files (devices) Files found in /dev.
5 File formats and conventions
The format for /etc/passwd and other human-readable
files.
6 Games
7 Overview, conventions, and miscellaneous
Overviews of various topics, conventions and protocols, character set standards, and miscellaneous other
things.
8 System management
commands
Commands like mount(8), many of which only root can
execute.
To filter down the output of the man -k command, we can use grep to obtain only the
relevant parts of the result on the basis of the appropriate section number in the man-pages.
This can be achieved using the pipe which feeds the output of the first command to the input
of the second command.
1 [somu@testBed ~]$ man -k day | grep 3
2 daylight (3) - initialize time conversion information
3 dysize (3) - get number of days for a given year
4 daylight (3p) - set timezone conversion information
5 gettimeofday (3p) - get the date and time
6 Net::Time (3pm) - time and daytime network client interface
7 Time::HiRes (3pm) - High resolution alarm, sleep, gettimeofday, interval timers
